---
title: Alexander Payne
category: personal
---

# About Me

I was born and raised in rural Minnesota, about an hour southwest of the Twin
Cities. I’ve always displayed a natural thirst for knowledge, especially about
music, mathematics, and computing, and my parents encouraged the pursuit of
education both in and out of the classroom. Living in the country provided
opportunities to learn about carpentry (my dad was a hobbyist cabinetmaker, and
we also had to do a ***lot*** of upkeep on the property) and the outdoors with
the Boy Scouts.

My family moved to Michigan in 2005. I completed my Eagle Scout Service Project
in 2008, which reïntroduced bluebirds to my local county for the first time in
over twenty years. I attended Trine University, originally as a mechanical
engineer. When I realized I was much more passionate about the programming and
machine control than the finished products themselves, I switched to Computer
Engineering. My Senior Design project, the construction and programming of a
large autonomous vehicle, involved my skills in both disciplines.

In addition to my academic and technical pursuits, I also greatly enjoy music
and aquatics. I began learning piano when I was six, and added the trumpet and
French horn in middle and high school, respectively. I’ve played in my school
bands for ten years and hope to resume playing in a community orchestra after
the pandemic. I have been a strong swimmer all my life, and became a Red Cross
lifeguard at 14. My passion for aquatic safety has led me to become a BSA
lifeguard and PADI Rescue Diver, and I have employed these skills as the
aquatics director at my local Boy Scout camp. During my time at Rota-Kiwan, I
received excellent reviews and maintained a strong safety record.

I am deeply passionate about achieving safety in risky environments through
familiarity, competence, and assistance. I aim to make delivery of such safety
benefits a primary goal of my career and personal life.

## Personal Life

After university, I lived in Logan, Utah and Albuquerque, New Mexico before
moving to Arlington, Virginia for my new job. My friends from camp and college
are mostly back in the Great Lakes, and my friends from work are primarily in
San Francisco and New England, so the physical distance encourages my strong
online social presence.

I have volunteered as a leader and instructor with Scout troops in every area
I have lived. Scouting has been a fundamental aspect of my life since I was six
years old and I am happy and grateful to be able to stay active in it as an
adult.

----

I believe it is important to be open about harmful experiences as well as the
happier and upbeat aspects of our lives. I went through these with a very
limited community around me for support.

I hope that my writing about it here can be reässuring, if you need it.
Furthermore, please feel free to contact me directly for any reason. I am
listing these to establish a common understanding, not to limit scope or compare
pains.

I lost my father to brain cancer through the back half of 2018, my grandmother
to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 Apr, and both of the family cats in 2020 Sep.
I have written on Twitter about the costs of survival in the hopes that my
experience can be useful to anyone else going through similar circumstances.

I am a relatively rare figure, at least in my social circles so far, in that I
have received violent domestic abuse and written about it publicly. You may read
[my account][dv] if you wish.

I have struggled with suicidal ideation since I was eight years old. I made
several attempts in high school and college, all ultimately without effect. I am
now recovered and largely beyond it, though lingering intrusive thoughts remain.
In my experience, this is a *frighteningly* common phenomenon across American
youth and early adults.

[dv]: /blog/misc/dv
